What do you think?
Is there a connection, a relationship,
between love and peace?
And if so, what role does love play
in achieving genuine peace?
The Bible helps us to appreciate
that love is an essential element
in achieving genuine peace.
So we’re interested in showing love.
As students of the Bible, we know
that humans were created
in the image of God.
And as a result,
you and I have the ability to show love.
But we also know that we live in a world
that has a very distorted view
and definition of love.
That, combined with our own imperfection,
means that if we’re not careful,
our view of love can become distorted.
So how do we guard against that?
By allowing Jehovah to teach us how to love.
And when you think about it,
what better teacher could we have?
The Bible says that “God is love.”
That means that Jehovah, our Creator
—who knows us better than we know ourselves,
who embodies, who personifies love—
is willing to teach us how to love.
And how does he do that?
Well, by means of his Word, the Bible,
and by means of his own beautiful example.
As we get acquainted with Jehovah,
we learn what love really is.
And as we put that love to work,
as Jesus did,
then we’re in a position
to enjoy genuine peace.
In this symposium,
we’re going to explore how love for God,
love of neighbor,
and love for God’s Word, the Bible,
can lead to genuine peace.
First, let’s talk about love for God.
How important is that
if we want to enjoy genuine peace?
Well, Jesus provides some insight
in a statement he made
that’s recorded in our Bibles
at Matthew chapter 22.
Let’s look at it.
Matthew chapter 22,
and we’re going to read verse 37.
Now, to provide some context for these words,
Jesus has been asked a question by a man
who is well-versed in the Law.
“[What] is the greatest commandment
in the Law?”
Notice how Jesus responds:
“He said to him:
“‘You must love Jehovah your God
“‘with your whole heart
“‘and with your whole soul
“and with your whole mind.’
This is the greatest and first commandment.”
“You must love Jehovah your God”
—a command.
Love for Jehovah is essential.
It has to be
the most important relationship in our life.
More important than any human,
more important than any thing
—we want to love Jehovah.
To what extent?
Well, Jesus says: “with your whole heart.”
What does that involve?
The context of Jesus’ words
helps us to understand that he was talking
about a person’s feelings,
emotions, desires.
So does love for God involve our emotions?
Absolutely!
But it has to involve more
than a simple affection for God.
Why do we say that?
Well, what did Jesus say next?
“With your whole soul,”
that is, with your entire being.
We use everything we have
to praise Jehovah
and to prove our love for him.
But even more is involved.
Jesus concludes by saying:
“with your whole mind.”
So our intellectual faculties are involved.
We’re willing to take the time
to get to know Jehovah’s thinking
and make it our thinking.
We want to think the way Jehovah thinks.
We want to understand his purpose
and his requirements for us,
and we want to understand his personality.
Now, when we think about that kind of love,
it’s clear that it encompasses
our thoughts, our words, and our actions.
Nothing is left out.
And that kind of love
provides a basis for a friendship with God.
And that results in peace with God.
So there we see the progression.
Loving Jehovah with our whole heart,
soul, and mind
leads to peace with God.
And as we enjoy peace with God,
we can also enjoy inner peace
and peace with those around us.
Now, how does that work?
Well, our love for Jehovah
motivates us to imitate him,
and we cultivate the qualities
that Jehovah displays,
for example: patience,
kindness, mildness
—qualities that make us attractive to others,
and qualities that promote peace with others.
I’m sure you would agree
that we want to be at peace with God.
But sometimes our peace can be threatened.
We may experience pressure.
We may be the subject of some wrong,
some injustice, some evil
that threatens our peace.
And then the question is this:
Will we handle things in a way
that is pleasing to Jehovah
or will we become impatient
or try to take matters into our own hands?
In the following dramatization,
notice how a family draws strength
from a Bible account
that highlights love and respect
for Jehovah’s sovereignty.
Olivia!
Hurry, you’re going to be late for school!
Thank you.
OK, Mom. I’m going to preach.
See you.
Love you.
Bye, Mom. Love you.
Have a good day.
See you later, Mom.
Today’s poll: Would she ever?
She would never; she’s an angel.
I think it’s all a front.
You know she’s wild.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, she totally just saw us.
OK. I’m totally posting that.
Do it.
OK. It’s up.
Hey, everyone . . .
Did you just get that?
Yeah.
Look at that.
Hey, everyone . . .
That’s the craziest.
Oh, my goodness.
Hey, everyone, Brooke here.
And Amanda.
Guess who just walked in?
Olivia.
And there’s Jake.
Today’s poll: Would she ever?
No, she would never; she’s an angel.
I think it’s all an act.
You know she’s wild.
Oops, she saw us.
She saw us.
I don’t believe it.
What are you going to comment?
I have no idea.
I don’t even think she likes guys.
What if she’s into girls?
That’s true. Yeah.
Comments!
Everybody is getting it.
I bet she’s still a virgin.
Hey, can I see that?
Yeah, of course.
Here you go.
Enjoy Life Forever!
Now, how are you going to do that?
Well, that’s a very good question, actually.
Well, God promises . . .
No, no, no, not God, you!
What are you doing?
Me? Well, I try to help others . . .
Try?
Man, all you do
is stand next to your little cart
while the rest of us
stand up for your rights, bro.
Well, I’m actually neutral when it . . .
Neutral?
Ain’t no neutral. You’re just a coward.
Take your trash.
How did it go?
It was a tough day at the cart, but I’m OK.
Hey, everyone, Brooke here.
And Amanda.
Guess who just walked in?
Olivia.
Olivia,
what’s wrong?
Hey, everyone, Brooke here.
And Amanda.
Guess who just walked in?
Olivia.
And there’s Jake.
Today’s poll: Would she ever?
No, she would never; she’s an angel.
I think it’s all an act.
You know she’s wild.
Oops, she saw us.
I’m so sorry that happened to you.
You know,
it reminds me of a situation Paul was in.
I think it was at Acts chapter 16
and verse 23:
“After they had inflicted many blows on them,
“they threw them into prison
“and ordered the jailer
to guard them securely.
“Because he got such an order, he threw them
“into the inner prison
“and fastened their feet in the stocks.
“But about the middle of the night,
“Paul and Silas were praying
“and praising God with song,
and the prisoners were listening to them.”
What do you think made them want to sing?
They loved Jehovah.
And when they focused on that,
how do you think they felt?
I think
they felt some peace.
That’s right.
How about we dig a little bit deeper?
OK.
Well, what did you notice?
Gabe and Olivia are under pressure
—Olivia in the classroom,
Gabe at the witnessing cart.
How will they handle the pressure
in a way that preserves
their peace with Jehovah?
Well, it’s a good question.
And really, all of us
need to reflect on that question
when we’re under pressure.
We know that Jehovah’s way is the best way.
We’re convinced that his way of ruling
is the best way.
But when we’re subjected to pressure,
perhaps the victim of some injustice
or even of some evil,
we may be inclined
to take matters into our own hands.
And when we do,
it can jeopardize our peace.
So how do we demonstrate respect
for Jehovah’s sovereignty?
The inspired advice
in Romans chapter 12 can help.
Let’s look together at Romans chapter 12,
beginning in verse 17:
“Return evil for evil to no one.”
So this provides the context
for what follows.
We may suffer some evil.
“Return evil for evil to no one.
Take into consideration what is fine
from the viewpoint of all men.”
And then notice verse 18:
“If possible, as far as it depends
“on you,
be peaceable (be a peacemaker)
with all men.”
Now, these words
really heighten our appreciation
for Jehovah’s reasonableness.
Why do we say that?
Because Jehovah doesn’t ask us
to do something that we can’t do.
He doesn’t ask us to control others.
No,
to the extent “it depends on you.”
Jehovah asks that each of us
control ourselves,
our response to a situation,
and to be peacemakers.
And then an explanation, verse 19:
“Do not avenge yourselves, beloved,
but yield place to the wrath.”
Why?
“For it is written: ‘Vengeance is mine;
I will repay,’ says Jehovah.”
So the advice is this:
Be a peacemaker,
and leave wrath to God.
Let him determine
if and when and upon whom
vengeance will be brought.
It’s easy to say,
but is it always easy to do?
No.
The example of King David
can be very helpful to us.
Through no fault of his own,
David became the target
of King Saul’s murderous hatred.
And on several occasions,
Saul tried to kill David.
For several years David lived as a fugitive.
But there were opportunities during that time
for David to harm Saul, even to kill him.
He could have justified that in his mind.
But do you think had he done so
it would have threatened his peace
—his peace, especially, with Jehovah?
We know that it would.
So how did David respond?
On one occasion, he said to his men:
“It is unthinkable from Jehovah’s standpoint
“that I should do such a thing to my lord,
the anointed of Jehovah.”
What helped David?
Well, he saw a bigger picture
than David and Saul, didn’t he?
He saw a picture with David, Saul,
and Jehovah.
He knew that if Saul needed to be corrected,
Jehovah would do it in his time and way.
As a result, David was willing to be patient
and he preserved his peace
—his peace with God, his inner peace,
and his peace with those around him.
What a beautiful example!
We can be sure that if we demonstrate
our love for Jehovah
by respecting his sovereignty
and waiting on him,
we will enjoy peace as well.
Jehovah assures us
that he will bless his people
and he will bless us with peace.
So let us be determined to love Jehovah
with our whole heart, soul, and mind
and to demonstrate our love for Jehovah
by patiently waiting on him
and respecting his sovereignty
—his way of doing things.
If we do, we will enjoy
the incomparable peace of God.
Now, Brother Ralph Walls,
a helper to the Personnel Committee,
will present the next talk of this symposium,
“How Love Leads to Genuine Peace
—Love of Neighbor.”